# ve-media

The `.ve-media` tag is the most commonly used essay tag.  The tag creates a viewer that is able to display IIIF images, video, and audio. The viewer can also be used to display streamed video from YouTube and Vimeo.

## .ve-media Attributes

**alt** (_text string_):  The text to use in the _alt_ tag used by screen readers.  If not provided an _alt_ tag is automatically generated from the manifest label property.

**compare** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  The _compare_ attribute is used compare 2 images.  In compare mode the 2 images are stacked (one is overlaid on the other) and a slider is used to show or hide portions of the bottom image.  The compared images cannot be zoomed or panned but one or both may  be cropped to align the images for comparison.

**fit** ("_cover_" or "_contain_"):  The _fit_ attribute controls the display of an image in the viewer viewport.  In the default mode (_contain_) the entire image is shown with letter-boxing applied to the top and bottom or left and right when the image aspect ratio differs from the viewers.  When the value _cover_ is used the entire viewport is filled and the displayed portion of the image is cropped as needed to fit.
- **full** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  Use the fill width of browser viewport for the image.  Scale the image height proportional to the source image.  By default the image will be auto-sized such that its height is not more than 40% of the viewport height.
- **grid** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  Displays multiple images in a responsive grid. When clicked the images will create a popup window with full deep zoom and panning enabled. 
- **height** (_requested viewer height in pixels or as a percentage of viewing area width_):  A requested size for the  viewer height.  The default behavior is to use the full width of the available window and scale the viewer height to retain the aspect ratio of the source item (image or video).
- **left** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  Position the viewer in the left half of the viewport and scale the width proportionally.  Text will wrap around the viewer unless the _sticky_ attribute is included.
- **manifest** (_IIIF manifest URL_) :  The URL to the IIIF manifest for the item to display in the viewer.  This attribute is omitted when multiple using the viewer in multi-image mode.  This attribute may also be omitted in single image mode when QIDs are in scope.  When a _manifest_ attribute is not specified the most relevant (closest) QID to the tag is used to generate an IIIF manifest URL.  More information on QID use can be found in the [Wikidata](#wikidata) section.
- **options** (_IIIF image options_):  The _options_ attribute is used to define the [IIIF image request parameters](https://iiif.io/api/image/2.1/#image-request-parameters) for an image.  This attribute is most commonly used to define a coordinates for displaying an image region.    
- **right** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  Position the viewer in the right half of the viewport and scale the width proportionally. Text will wrap around the viewer unless the _sticky_ attribute is included.
- **seq** (_image sequence number_):  A number defining the image to use in a multi-image manifest.  If not specified the default value is _1_.
- **sticky** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  The _sticky_ attribute causes the viewer to "stick" to the top of the viewing area when the essay text is scrolled.  The viewer will stick in position until all content in the enclosing section has scrolled through the viewing area.
- **width** (_requested viewer width in pixels or as a percentage of viewing area width_):  A requested size for the  viewer width.  The default behavior is to use the full width of the available window.
- **zoom-on-scroll** ("_true_" or "_false_"):  Specifies whether the viewer will zoom the image when a scroll gesture is performed in the image viewer.  This is inhibited by default.

### Multiple images mode

To use more than one image with a `.ve-media` tag the Markdown nested list notation is used.  A Markdown list is defined by prefixing the `    - ` text to each list element on separate lines.   Each list element can include positional and/or key-value attributes for the associated image.

### Manifest URLs

The manifest URL is a URL to an IIIF presentation manifest that is compliant to version 2.x or version 3.0 of the IIIF Presentation Standard.

When referring to a manifest that is automatically generated by Juncture, a short-form version of the auto-generated URL may be used.  The short-form version takes the form of `<SOURCE>:<SOURCE_ID>`, where `<SOURCE>` is the a site code for one of the hosting sites supporting manifest generation by Juncture.  The `<SOURCE_ID>` value is a unique resource ID applicable to the site.  For example, Juncture is able to automatically generate IIIF manifests for images and other media hosted on [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Main_Page).  A full auto-generated manifest for the image at [https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Sunflower.jpg](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Sunflower.jpg){target=_blank} would be [https://iiif.juncture-digital.org/wc:Sunflow.jpg/manifest.json](https://iiif.juncture-digital.org/wc:Sunflow.jpg/manifest.json).  The short form version of this URL (**wc:Sunflower.jpg**) can be used with any Juncture tag (.ve-media, .ve-header, and others) that accept IIIF manifest attributes.

### Examples

#### Image rotation

<ve-snippet>
.ve-media wc:Sunflower.jpg rotation=90 fit=contain
</ve-snippet>

#### Using full and short from manifest URLs

The example below includes 2 .ve-image viewers displaying the same image from Wikimedia Commons.  The first viewer uses the full manifest URL.  The second uses the short form support by the Juncture IIIF server. 

<ve-snippet>
.ve-media https://iiif.juncture-digital.org/wc:Sunflower.jpg/manifest.json left
.ve-media wc:Sunflower.jpg right
</ve-snippet>

#### Using a JSTOR Community Collections image

<ve-snippet>
.ve-media wc:Sunflower.jpg left
.ve-media wc:Sunflower.jpg right region=pct:25,25,50,50
</ve-snippet>

#### Using a full manifest URL
<ve-snippet>
.ve-media https://iiif.harvardartmuseums.org/manifests/object/299843
</ve-snippet>

#### Using two images in compare mode
<ve-snippet>
.ve-media  grid
    - wc:Vincent_van_Gogh_-_De_slaapkamer_-_Google_Art_Project.jpg
    - wc:Vincent_van_Gogh_-_Vincent's_Bedroom_in_Arles_-_Letter_Sketch_October_1888.jpg
</ve-snippet>
