# Show entity info-box on hover {#entity-popup}

This behavior causes an entity information popup to be display when the cursor hovers over marked text associated with an entity (person, place, etc) identifier.  Juncture uses [Wikidata](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Main_Page) for entity data.  Wikidata is a free and open knowledge base that can be read and edited by both humans and machines.  Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others.  The textual information displayed in a Juncture entity popup is retrieved from Wikidata and Wikipedia.  When available, thumbnail images are retrieved from Wikimedia Commons.

Wikidata entity identifiers ("Q" IDs) can be obtained by querying Wikidata or by visiting the Wikipedia page associated with the entity of interest.  When viewing a Wikipedia page the Wikidata link in the left navigation panel can be used to easily obtain the entity `QID`.  Clicking on the Wikidata link will open the associated Wikidata page where the QID can be copied from the title displayed at the top of the page.  For example, the [Wikidata page for Vincent van Gogh](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q5582) reveals the QID `Q5582`.  Adding this QID to a marked text segment will cause an entity popup to appear when hovering over the text.  A working example of this can be seen in the paragraph below.

> ==Vincent Willem van Gogh=={Q5582} was a Dutch Post-Impressionist painter who posthumously became one of the most famous and influential figures in Western art history. In a decade, he created about 2,100 artworks, including around 860 oil paintings, most of which date from the last two years of his life.
